[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: If you recall at all,
exercise four was
at the end of our discussion about OLOO,
when we had compared and
contrasted various object
design patterns in JavaScript.
And I had presented you OLOO objects
linked to other objects as a delegation,
the pattern of delegation implemented
with objects being linked through
the prototype mechanism.
And I assigned this exercise
because I wanted you to have yet
another side by side comparison of
the traditional classical prototype style
coding in JavaScript compared with
this new style that I'm calling OLOO.
So the task, the exercise,
calls for you to finish out
the definition of a widget,
parent class and a Button child class.
And then show how you can instantiate
those Buttons to have them on the screen.
So, I will show you
what we start out with.
This is the empty file.
By the way, just as a reminder both
with the exercises from yesterday as
well as the exercises for today.
I recommend that you have a separate copy
of that folder so that when you make
changes to those files, you can go back at
some point later and have pristine copies.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Question early today.
Derek is wondering if chrome
34 will be good enough for
the exercises, and not Canary
since it's not available on Linux.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
Chrome 34 is fine.
We just don't want somebody on
Chrome 28 or some old version.
But Chrome 34's fine.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay so, the way we would
start out the first part of this task is
to do this using the traditional
class design approach.
This is a parent class and a child class.
Class orientation tells us that we should
have a render method on our parent class
that's sort of an abstract or
base generic render.
And then of course on our Button class
we're gonna override the render and
add additional behavior to it.
So let's start by first declaring or
defining our Button constructor you see
here, so I will uncomment this code.
This will be our Button constructor,
our Button class definition.
And you're going to need
if you read in the readme,
you're gonna need three parameters
that you instantiate a Button with.
First is a width, a height, and a label.
Label obviously being the visible text
that you're going to have on your Button.
So we know that the widget parent
constructor already handles the width and
the height.
And it even goes ahead and
sets up an element property to hold
our actual DOM element for us.
So really all we need to do is
call that parent constructor.
Now unfortunately with JavaScript
in its current version,
we don't have a way to express
this with a super method.
So we have to do so using sort of
a manual polymorphic type of call.
We can say the widget function,
we want to make sure we pass in this
binding that is our current one, and
then pass along the width and
height to our parent constructor.
>> Kyle Simpson: Next, since the parent
constructor doesn't know anything about
a label, we need to save off our label.
So we can say this.label is equal to
the label parameter that was passed in.
And finally I've shown you here how
you construct a button element.
This hasn't been added to the DOM yet
because the parent class is going to
do that with the appendTo function.
But we need to create our button
element so that it can be added to DOM.
Next we need to start adding our
methods to our public API of our class.
The way we do that in the classical
approach is Button.prototpye.
And in this case we're
gonna add in render.
If I can type today,
render will be a function that accepts
a parameter that tells it
where to render it to.
In this case we're probably
gonna use the body.
We need to call the parent render.
So and again in a similar way to
calling the widget parent constructor,
we need to do something similar.
So we're gonna have to do it manually,
widget.prototype.render.
And then we need to make sure
to override to this binding.
So, it's r this binding.
And pass along that where function,
so it knows where to append it to.
And then we need to add
in our click handler.
So the, this sorry,
this.$elem.
We're gonna bind the click handler for
our Button to
call our Button.onClick, which we haven't
defined, yet, but we will in a moment.
And so we will call that this.onClick.
But if we pass it along like that we know
it's gonna lose our this binding, so
we need to do a hard binding
here to make sure that it will
have the proper this context.
Next, to define that we're going
to add this also to the prototype.
It's a function event.
Now we want to console log out, and I
think it specifies in the readme what you
should say Button and
then its name and then clicked.
So we're going to console.log
out the statement Button.
And we can say this.label, the reason
the this will work is because we made
sure that this onClick is always
called with our proper context.
So Button, I'll put it probably in quotes,
just to be most clear and
then we say that it was clicked.
Now we've defined our parent and our child
classes using the classical approach.
We come down here we want to instantiate
it, it's probably what you're expecting,
you would say new Button.
I'm gonna give it a 100 width, a 50 height
and I'll say "Hello" as my first label.
My second Button that I will add to the
page, I'll say Button and I will make it
twice as big, actually four times as big,
twice as wide, twice as high.
Now if we will save off this
code which I won't save
my files since I'm not making
local modifications here.
But if were gonna do that or
to open up the fixed version of this code
to see what it should actually look like.
Oops, I didn't get to the right spot,
did I.
All right.
Let's see here.
Day1, exercise4.
If I open up the fix.html,
you note there that of course,
I have my Hello World Buttons
that have been added to my page.
And you'll also note if you watch
the console, that when I click
the Hello Button it indeed indicates
which Button has been clicked.
>> Kyle Simpson: Any questions about
how we did the classical approach to
the widget button parent class coding?
I need some semicolons I guess.
All right, so what we wanna now do is,
starting with this as our starting point.
How would we then approach this,
instead of in a classical style,
how might we approach in the OLOO style?
And just to save some time, so
we don't get too bogged down this morning,
I'm just gonna show you
the fixed better file.
I'm gonna show you how it's OLOO and
talk you through the different
design perspective that I have here.
Rather than thinking about it
as a parent and a child where
the child extends the parent, and
redefines certain base methods.
And overrides them with polymorphism, and
rather than thinking about
that as our design pattern.
And instead we could think about
widget as sort of a utility object.
That every widget on the page
has certain common tasks
that they would like to delegate to that
widget utility object for it to handle.
And so we would have a Button object,
that obviously is going to
handle creating Button widgets.
And we would have the Button
widget configured to delegate to
the widget Utility object.
And delegation of course,
as we talked about yesterday,
it's a different mechanism because
there isn't a copying going.
It's a different mechanism
to class oriented code.
So, here's how I might approach that.
I would first start with making
widget an object rather than
as a constructor function.
So here, I take advantage of the object
literal syntax for short-handing and
I declare that I'm gonna have
an init function here on line two.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's sort of taking
the place of the initialization code that
a constructor used to do.
>> Kyle Simpson: You don't have to think
about it as a constructor anymore because
now we have the power to construct objects
separately from when we initialized them.
But this is an initializer that we can
delegate because all widgets need to be
able to do this base amount of
delegation of initialization.
We would say all of our UI
widgets have at least a width and
a height and have at least an element
reference to the dom object.
Now, here's where things start to be
a little bit different because rather than
trying to come up with a generic name
like render, which I would intentionally
shadow, and try to overwrite, and
then cause myself polymorphic headaches.
Instead, I came up with
different names for
trying to represent more specifically
what the different tasks are doing.
So my generic utility on my
widget class I called insert.
Because really, all he's doing, he is
setting up some CSS so we might have been
able to come up with a name that sort of
stylized an insert or something like that.
But his main job is to call the appendTo
function and add it to the doc.
So he's inserting our
element into the page.
So I came up with insert, you could
have called add to page or insert.
You could have called
it whatever you want,
but rather than using that generic name
render that's gonna cause polymorphic
shadowing headaches,
I came up with a more specific name.
Now my, moving onto the button object,
which again,
it's not gonna be a child class.
It's gonna be a peer that we'll be able
to delegate to the widget utility object.
We have button = object.create(widget).
We saw that yesterday.
That's just the simple way of
creating one object that's linked for
delegation to another object.
And rather than having to add
anything with prototypes I can
add methods directly to my button object.
I can say button.setup,
button.build and so forth.
So my setup function is going to call,
it's going to call the delegated
initialization function that all widgets
have the ability to delegate to.
But you'll notice that now I can
take advantage of delegation because
the names are different.
I can just say this.init.
I don't have to say something
like widget.init call this or
any of that awkwardness.
I can just say this.init and
it will properly delegate
out to the utility object.
I call my this.label my this.element
the same as I did before.
Now I also need a build function and
the build function is going to in addition
to calling the delegated insert call,
it's also going to attach
our click handler.
The this.elem.click and
attaching it to our bind function.
Finally my button.click looks exactly
the same as before with the this.label.
The only now difference is we're gonna
have slightly a little bit more code, but
more flexibility as well down here,
because now we're going to have
one step where we create a button.
Btn1 will delegate to the button object,
so we have btn1 that's delegating to it,
but now we also need to set up our btn1.
So here I'm giving it some parameters like
125, 30, 150, 40, that sort of thing.
And then we call build rather than
render to add those things to our page.
So, key takeaways here
are that there's a lot less
code complexity in terms of not needing to
manage constructors, prototype references,
doing those manual polymorphic calls,
things like that.
We just have objects that
are linked to other objects.
And, you note that we have button one,
and button two.
We could have a thousand buttons,
that we're all delegating to
the same singular button object.
So we're not limited in terms
of anything we've had before.
We're still creating in
that sense instances, but
these are instances that delegate,
rather than instances that receive a copy,
of their parent class or
something like that.
So we're not limited in any way in terms
of our performance or something like that.
We just have the flexibility
now to deal only with objects,
the simplicity to only deal with objects,
and
we have the flexibility to construct
separately from initialization.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: The question online if
there's some kind of equivalent to
super.method or super.apply argument.
It's like, in this pattern where
you're basically having a button be a,
I don't want to say subclass, but I think
that's the thinking of the question.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
delegator or delegatee or
delegate is the right way to say
it in behavior delegation terms.
But to answer the question,
the question is, what if I really
wanted to insert the shadowing?
What if I really wanted
to use the word render
as the method name on
both of these objects?
What if that was really the appropriate
thing, what would I do?
Well, really your only option in that
case if this, if you had Button.init and
a Delegate.init obviously this ".init"
isn't gonna work so you're gonna
to have to do it manually, you're gonna
to have to do the Widget.init.call,
and make sure that you
override the this binding.
That's really the only practical option.
JavaScript as of ES5 and
below does not have a super method.
As of ES6, they've added a whole syntax
called with the class keyword, a whole
set of syntax to try to even further the
pretending that JavaScript has classes.
And if you chose to use the class
syntax in JavaScript, as of ES6,
one of the few things that they've
done to help to help the syntax
is they gave you a super keyword.
But that requires you then to opt in
fully into the class design mechanism.
It requires you to set aside any of
the questions that you may have.
I've written a bunch about
this in that second title.
The first appendix of that book, I deal
directly with the class syntax of ES6,
and I point out why there are some things
that they've certainly made better.
But there's a whole bunch of things
that we already talked about yesterday
that they really didn't make much better.
So it's kind of a choice if you
want to keep going with classes,
you can choose something like super.
But outside of classes there
won't be a super mechanism.
You'll either have to chose
the explicit polymorphism like here or
choose to use different names.
Now I would make the advocation one final
time that picking different names is
better proper design, more descriptive
names, rather than using a generic name
like render which would mean a hundred
different things at different levels.
Being able to choose a specific
name I actually think makes
software design better.
So, you just have to set aside that idea
that you've been told that you need to
create general and
specific overridings for class designs.
But hopefully that answers
the question about super.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Could you setup widget and
button in kind of a module pattern so
that you could create
private members as well?
>> Kyle Simpson: Sure.
The setting up of a, so
to indulge that question for
just a moment, if I were to have
something like widget is equal to an efe,
and I were to have this stuff on
a public API that I returned out.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
now we did some module.
Right that's all I had to do
to turn it into a module.
Now it's a module that has
these two members on it.
And you might ask well what if I wanted
to have some kind of internal tracking?
It doesn't make a lot of sense to have
Internal data on the widget utility
because it's really just the utility.
But if we did the same thing with Button,
if we instead had a var Button = and
we called it and we did an if with the
module pattern, and we cut that guy out.
And in all these cases if these were.
>> Kyle Simpson: If these
were methods on our
public API,
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we returned our public API.
So now we've got two modules.
You can see how quickly that is to
change between the styles when you
understand the syntax.
So now we've got two modules.
And you might ask, well,
what about these members, here,
like the width and the height?
So it would be maybe nice if I
could have a private width and
a private height and
a private label variable,
rather than adding those things
to some public thing like a this,
wouldn't it be nice if I could make
references to these things or,
I'd also need an elem.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right so if we go
down that path, if we started dealing with
this module pattern with the closure so
that we can track these things privately.
There's a benefit now because we have
the encapsulation, we're hiding details,
there's all of that nicety.
But I think you're gonna start to see
why these two mechanisms are sort of
orthogonal.
It's not very common that you
mix modules and delegation.
Because, what happen
with this this.init call?
What we're hoping to do is delegate to
an init method on some other module and
have that guy start
dealing with our things.
So theoretically, we would like it to be
able to do something like setting our
private members.
But he's in an entirely different module
in an entirely different closure and
he has no access to those properties.
So, the usefulness of
being able to delegate to
a general initializer is completely lost,
because we hid it.
So, we would have to define our
entire set of behaviors manually.
We'd have to manually call
width equals width, and
height equals height, and so forth.
So, it's not that there's no call for
delegation with modules, but
when you start talking about I want to use
a module because I want the privacy of my
variables, that significantly cuts
off your ability to use delegation.
So they are sort of orthogonal patterns.
>> Speaker 2: Could you set your publicAPI
equal to object.createWidget and
then add setup, and then you would
also have the option to have private
members if you wanted as well?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, so
if what you're asking is,
rather than just making this
an object could I make?
And I have done this before,
although there's only a few limited times,
could I make my publicAPI
delegate up to widget?
Well I mean that's essentially
what we would have done,
I just hadn't gone that far.
But if we did that then and we said
rather than calling these things private,
we were basically saying publicAPI.width,
because that's the only way we
could delegate up to this.init.
>> Kyle Simpson: Was that rather
than these being private variables,
they'd have to be variables
on our public API,
cuz that's the only object
that the two would share.
And now, all of a sudden, we've gone
exactly back to what we were doing before,
where these are public
properties rather than private.
So you could, theoretically, use this
pattern, I kind of call this Frankenstein,
but you can, theoretically use this
pattern to track some things private and
other things public.
But what you're gonna inexorably
come to the conclusion is,
if I wanna delegate it has to be public.
So you do get limitations where I
wanna keep this thing private, but
I also wanna delegate.
You can't do that.
So it's kind of just choice.
That's why I say that they're othogonal.
>> Kyle Simpson: But yeah,
you absolutely can do this.
There have been a couple
of times we've done that.
Those are great questions.
Any other questions about the comparison
between class orientation and Olu?
>> Speaker 3: What's the reason behind,
on line, well the Button?
>> Kyle Simpson: Do I need to
go back to the original one?
>> Speaker 3: The Button.build.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me
reset myself just a moment.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
The question was what?
>> Speaker 3: On line 29,
when you have the this.onClick.
>> Kyle Simpson: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 3: What's the reasoning
behind separating that out into its
own method there?
Like when you have the this.onClick.bind,
instead of like
an anonymous function there or-
>> Kyle Simpson: You're asking why
wouldn't I just put an anonymous function?
>> Speaker 3: Right.
>> Kyle Simpson: Even if I
did it an anonymous function,
I'd still have the this binding issue.
So I could do an anonymous function
here that did the console.log in it.
But his this binding would
still need to be overwritten.
So I'd still have to do the .bind(this)
on my anonymous function.
And that's a little bit of an awkward
pattern to do binds on anonymous.
Whether anonymous or not but it's a little
bit of a weird pattern to do binds
on function expressions and
line function expressions.
You can, but it's not very common for
people to approach it that way.
So the question that you're asking is why
would I have my own separate handler?
Well proper software design
says separation of concerns,
methods should do one tasks.
So my onClick handler is its own method
separate from the builder that did
the attaching, but
you could do it with an inline function.
It wouldn't solve any of the problem,
you'd still have to do your bindings.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 3: Mm-hm.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: There was the question
whether strict mode would have
an effect on any of these patterns?
I think in particular, this one is
the question, but I'm not positive.
>> Kyle Simpson: The only things that
strict mode would change is what
happens with the default bindings,
which we're not relying upon the default
binding in any of these cases.
We're using at worst the implicit binding,
because everywhere that we make
a reference to a method, we always
reference it by objectName.method
which uses the implicit binding.
Strict mode changes how
the default binding rule is but
it doesn't change any of the other rules.
So strict mode should not change
anything about how you'd use Olu.